finding a pointer manually
1. do a normal search for the memory area
2. add to address list
3. choose what accesses this address
4. do something in game
5. choose more information and find probable address
6. find offset by looking at highlighted area in brackets
7. do a new scan with probable address in hex - should be single return
*. the process fails here - more than one address (~40) are returned
8. enter manual address with scanned address on bottom and offset on top if not offset is zero
9. choose what accesses the newly entered pointer
*the process fails here as well:
probable address refers back to original address that we just entered as hex

finding a pointer automatically
1. do a normal search for the memory area
2. add to address list
3. choose pointer scan for this address
4. choose ok to scan
5a. restart target program and do a normal search for the memory area
5b. restart program and do nothing else
7. choose pointer scan for this address
8. close dialog and open results of previous search
9a. choose rescan memory and enter address we just found
9b. choose rescan memory and enter current value of target
10. repeat this process several times
11. repeat the entire process with a higher pointer depth level if pointers still change
* the process fails here - with level 7 more than 120GB of disk space are used

optimized automatic search
1. find address
2. make note of address
3. save pointermap
4. restart game
5. find address
6. make note of address
7. save pointermap
8. close game
9. choose pointerscan with saved pointermap and choose smallest of 2 saved pointermaps
10. use one of the addresses in the pointerscanner address field
11. choose compare results with other saved pointer map and choose other saved pointermap
12. use the other address here

-----

best way may not be to use pointers at all but instead scan once and increase your value to a large number and save so you do not have to scan again
some games this is not possible because they may crash when the value is changed too high or even worse corrupt the savefile

for example - in Empire: Total War money could be increased to a very large value and then the game saved without problems
counterexample - in Consortium: The Tower the savefile was corrupted when stun grenade ammo was increased above 30

